I'm applying for the Technology Graduate Programme, in the role of growth engineer.

I'm suited to this role as I have the particular skills and qualities required to be useful. In terms of my background in developing software, I've been responsible for writing code for use in simulations that have made up most of the work involved in earning my PhD. Before then, my masters project focused on simulating how complex fluids flow, and outside of academia I've worked on many relevant projects.

I spend much of my free time playing around with software tools, and look to them to solve mundane issues such as calculating what each flatmate owes in a joint supermarket delivery, and hiding my diary through encryption (for which I've written a text editor plugin). I've experience of writing web applications, for example I made a web application to serve searchable recycling collection dates as google calendars, using data scraped from the council's website.

My PhD has required me to self-generate ideas for projects, and due to working in an area involving several scientific disciplines, there's a need to be able to learn about unfamiliar and varied topics independently.
My background in physics gives me a deep understanding of what constitutes a useful experiment, and my awareness of statistical and cognitive biases allows me to distinguish patterns from noise. Analysis of the large amounts of data produced by my simulations and co-workers' experiments has given me experience of this process.

The language I've used most both in work and outside of it has been Python; I've also experience with Java through teaching courses for undergraduate and PhD students. I've used RESTful web APIs such as Tesco Groceries and Google Maps, and have used AJAX techniques in several projects. I use git extensively, and am completely comfortable in Linux, Windows and OS X environments.

My favourite University project involved investigating the distribution of bacteria inside water droplets, working with an experimental biologist. It was rewarding to work in a team with truly complementary skills: theirs of experimental techniques and the relevant biology; mine of simulation techniques and statistical analysis. An interesting thing about myself is that I helped to make the filling in Cadbury's Crunchie bars less bubbly, by improving the design of the machine making the stuff. My proudest achievement was completing my first marathon last year. From a starting point of not being at all sporty to completing this distance in just over a year was immensely satisfying.
